## A. Customer Journey

Based off the 8 sample customers provided in the sample from the subscriptions table, write a brief description about each customer’s onboarding journey.

  "The subscription table shows information about each customer's journey in using foodie-fi services.
  The journey starts with a free 7 day trial period until the client decides to cancel or continue the streaming service by upgrading their account from the basic plan to the higher plan."
  

## B. Data Analysis Solutions

1. How many customers has Foodie-Fi ever had?
````sql
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT customer_id)as total_customers
FROM foodie_fi.subscriptions
````
2. What is the monthly distribution of trial plan start_date values for our dataset - use the start of the month as the group by value



4. What plan start_date values occur after the year 2020 for our dataset? Show the breakdown by count of events for each plan_name
5. What is the customer count and percentage of customers who have churned rounded to 1 decimal place?
6. How many customers have churned straight after their initial free trial - what percentage is this rounded to the nearest whole number?
7. What is the number and percentage of customer plans after their initial free trial?
8. What is the customer count and percentage breakdown of all 5 plan_name values at 2020-12-31?
9. How many customers have upgraded to an annual plan in 2020?
10. How many days on average does it take for a customer to an annual plan from the day they join Foodie-Fi?
11. Can you further breakdown this average value into 30 day periods (i.e. 0-30 days, 31-60 days etc)
12. How many customers downgraded from a pro monthly to a basic monthly plan in 2020?

