# 🍕 Case Study #2 Pizza Runner

## Solution - B. Runner and Customer Experience

### 1. How many runners signed up for each 1 week period? (i.e. week starts 2021-01-01)
```sql
SELECT CAST(to_char(registration_date, 'WW')as NUMERIC)as week_period,
	COUNT(runner_id)as number_signup
FROM pizza_runner.runners		
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```
### Steps :
- Use `to_char function with the 'WW'` format to converts the registration_date column to the week number
- Use `CAST` function to convert the result to a numeric data type
- Use `COUNT()` to counts the number of runner_id occurrences in the runners table

### Answer :
- On Week 1 of Jan 2021, 2 new runners signed up.
- On Week 2 and 3 of Jan 2021, 1 new runner signed up.
----

### 2. What was the average time in minutes it took for each runner to arrive at the Pizza Runner HQ to pickup the order?
```sql
SELECT runner_id,
	ROUND(AVG(time_difference_minutes),2) AS avg_time_difference_minutes
FROM (		
	SELECT runner_id,
		EXTRACT(EPOCH FROM (pickup_time - order_time)) / 60 AS time_difference_minutes
	FROM runner_orders_cleaned r
	JOIN customer_orders_cleaned c on r.order_id = c.order_id
	GROUP BY runner_id, pickup_time, order_time
	ORDER BY 1) a
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1
```
### Steps:
- Create subquery and Use `EXTRACT(EPOCH)` to extract the difference between pickup_time and order_time in minutes in PostgreSQL
- Then it is divided by 60 to convert it into minutes
- Use `AVG()` function to get the average time for each runner

### Answer :
- For Runner 1, The average time taken in minutes to arrive at Pizza Runner HQ to pick up the order is 14.33 minutes
- For Runner 2, The average time taken in minutes to arrive at Pizza Runner HQ to pick up the order is 20.1 minutes
- For Runner 3, The average time taken in minutes to arrive at Pizza Runner HQ to pick up the order is 10.5 minutes
----

### 3. Is there any relationship between the number of pizzas and how long the order takes to prepare?
```sql
SELECT number_pizza,
	ROUND(AVG(time_difference_minutes),2) AS avg_time_difference
FROM (		
	SELECT c.order_id,
		COUNT(pizza_id)as number_pizza,
		EXTRACT(EPOCH FROM (pickup_time - order_time)) / 60 AS time_difference_minutes
	FROM runner_orders_cleaned r
	JOIN customer_orders_cleaned c on r.order_id = c.order_id
	GROUP BY c.order_id,pickup_time,order_time
	ORDER BY 1) a
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```
### Steps:
- Create subquery and Use `EXTRACT(EPOCH)` to extract the difference between pickup_time and order_time in minutes for each orders in PostgreSQL
- Then it is divided by 60 to convert it into minutes
- Use `COUNT()` to calculate number of pizza
- Use `AVG()` function to get the average time for each number of pizza

### Answer :
- For Number of pizza = 1, The average time taken in minutes to arrive at Pizza Runner HQ to pick up the order is 12.4 minutes
- For Number of pizza = 2, The average time taken in minutes to arrive at Pizza Runner HQ to pick up the order is 18.4 minutes
- For Number of pizza = 3, The average time taken in minutes to arrive at Pizza Runner HQ to pick up the order is 29.3 minutes

This shows that there is a positive correlation between the number of pizzas and the time required to prepare them. Meaning the more pizzas you order, the more time it takes to prepare them!

----

### 4. What was the average distance travelled for each customer?
```sql
SELECT customer_id,
	ROUND(AVG(distance),2)as avg_distance
FROM runner_orders_cleaned r
JOIN customer_orders_cleaned c on r.order_id = c.order_id
WHERE cancellation IS NULL
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```
### Answer :
(Assuming that distance is calculated from Pizza Runner HQ to customer’s place)
- For customerID 101, the average distance travelled was 20 km
- For customerID 102, the average distance travelled was 16.73 km
- For customerID 103, the average distance travelled was 23.40 km
- For customerID 104, the average distance travelled was 10 km
- For customerID 105, the average distance travelled was 25 km

Customer 104 stays the nearest to Pizza Runner HQ at average distance of 10km, whereas Customer 105 stays the furthest at 25km.

----

### 5. What was the difference between the longest and shortest delivery times for all orders?
```sql
SELECT MAX(duration) - MIN(duration) as difference_delivery_time
FROM runner_orders_cleaned
WHERE cancellation IS NULL;
```
### Answer :
- The difference between longest (40 minutes) and shortest (10 minutes) delivery time for all orders is 30 minutes.

## 6. What was the average speed for each runner for each delivery and do you notice any trend for these values?
```sql
SELECT runner_id,
	order_id,
	ROUND(AVG(distance::numeric / (duration::numeric/60)),2)as average_speed
FROM runner_orders_cleaned
WHERE cancellation IS NULL
GROUP BY 1,2
ORDER BY 1,2;	
```
### Steps:
- Assume that speed = Distance in km / Duration in hours so we need to convert duration to hours by dividing by 60
- Use `AVG()` to calculate the average speed for each runner for each delivery

### Answer :
- Runner 1’s average speed runs from 37.5km/h to 60km/h.
- Runner 2’s average speed runs from 35.1km/h to 93.6km/h. Danny should investigate Runner 2 as the average speed has a 300% fluctuation rate!
- Runner 3’s average speed is 40km/h
----

## 7. What is the successful delivery percentage for each runner?
```sql
SELECT runner_id,
	FLOOR((SUM(CASE WHEN cancellation IS NULL THEN 1 END)::numeric / COUNT(order_id)::numeric) * 100) as pct_success
FROM runner_orders_cleaned
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```
### Answer :
- Runner 1 has 100% successful delivery.
- Runner 2 has 75% successful delivery.
- Runner 3 has 50% successful delivery
----

